after our last video on policy porting
many of you asked about policy migration
and how it differs from porting today
we're going to break down both Concepts
and help you understand exactly when to
choose which option hi folks I'm shashan
and you're watching ditto insurance we
are an insurance advisory platform and
if you're looking for quality and free
health insurance and term life insurance
advice then quickly book a free chat
with us with the link in the description
now let's start with the basics and I
mean Crystal Clear definitions I'll help
you on understand everything that
follows policy migration is when you
switch from one health insurance plan to
another while staying with the same
insurance company think of it as an
internal upgrade or change for example
you might migrate from basic plan to a
Premium plan with better coverage all
within the same insurance company boting
on the other hand is when you switch
your entire policy from one insurance
company to one another like switching
your sim from atle to Geo the key here
is that you get to keep your accumul
benefits yes those waiting periods
you've already served stay intact now
let's break down the crucial difference
between porting and migration first
let's talk timing with porting you can
only make the switch during policy
renewal and you need to give your
insured advanced notice typically 45 to
60 days before renewal migration is more
flexible most insurers allow you to
migrate plans at any time during your
policy period second let's discuss
documentation porting requires
significant paperwork you'll need to
fill out portability forms provide kyc
documents submit your existing policy
details and share your complete claims
history migration much simpler since
you're staying with the same insurer
they already know you so they have all
your information third let's take a look
at the premiums when you port your new
insurer will assess your risk profile
and set premiums accordingly with
migration while premiums might change
based on your new plans features they
usually stay relatively similar since
you with the same insurer now the big
question when should you port and when
should you migrate choose porting when
you're unhappy with your current insurer
service you found another insurer with
better claim settlement ratios you want
access to a broader Hospital Network or
you found significantly better coverage
options with another insurer choose
migration when you're satisfied with
your current insurance company but you
need different features and want to
avoid the hassle of changing insures you
also want a quicker simpler process with
l documentation and you're looking to
upgrade or modify your coverage within
the same company and finally you're
moving from a group policy to an
individual policy within the same
insurer now here's something crucial to
understand both options protect your
continuity benefits this means your
waiting periods for pre-existing
conditions and any no claim bonuses that
you have accumulated won't go to waste
however always read the fine print of
your new policy whether you're porting
or migrating now let's address some
question questions that you guys have
already asked us will my premium
definitely increase if I port or migrate
not necessarily with porting it depends
on the new insurance assessment with
migration it primarily depends on the
features of your new plan next can I
change my Su insur during porting or
migration yes you can but remember for a
higher sum insured you might need to
undergo medical tests especially when
porting what happens to my ongoing
treatment if I port or migrate now your
coverage continues seamlessly but make
sure to disclose any ongoing treatments
during application process so folks
here's the bottom line both porting and
migration are valuable tools that give
you flexibility with your health
insurance coverage if you're unhappy
with your insurer service or find better
option elsewhere porting might be your
best bet if you're looking for different
features but are satisfied with your
current insurer migration is probably
the best way to go remember the goal is
to have the best possible health
coverage for your needs don't stick with
a plan that's not serving you well just
because change seems daunting whether
you choose to port or migrate the
important thing is to make an informed
decision based on your specific needs
and circumstances if you found this
explanation helpful don't forget to like
And subscribe for more clear practical
Insurance advice drop your specific
questions in the comments below and we
will answer them in the next video until
next time folks happy Insurance hunting